# credit-card-fraud-detection
As the world is rapidly moving towards digitization and money transactions are becoming cashless, the use of credit cards has rapidly increased. The fraud activities associated with it have also been increasing which leads to a huge loss to the financial institutions. Therefore, we need to analyze and detect the fraudulent transaction from the non-fraudulent ones. In this paper, we present a comprehensive review of various methods used to detect credit card fraud. These methodologies include Hidden Markov Model, Decision Trees, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machines (SVM), Genetic algorithm, Neural Networks, Random Forests, Bayesian Belief Network. A comprehensive analysis of various techniques is presented. We conclude the paper with the pros and cons of the same as stated in the respective papers.

# What is Credit Card Fraud Detection?
“Fraud detection is a set of activities that are taken to prevent money or property from being obtained through false pretenses.”

Fraud can be committed in different ways and in many industries. The majority of detection methods combine a variety of fraud detection datasets to form a connected overview of both valid and non-valid payment data to make a decision. This decision must consider IP address, geolocation, device identification, “BIN” data, global latitude/longitude, historic transaction patterns, and the actual transaction information. In practice, this means that merchants and issuers deploy analytically based responses that use internal and external data to apply a set of business rules or analytical algorithms to detect fraud.

Credit Card Fraud Detection with Machine Learning is a process of data investigation by a Data Science team and the development of a model that will provide the best results in revealing and preventing fraudulent transactions. This is achieved through bringing together all meaningful features of card users’ transactions, such as Date, User Zone, Product Category, Amount, Provider, Client’s Behavioral Patterns, etc. The information is then run through a subtly trained model that finds patterns and rules so that it can classify whether a transaction is fraudulent or is legitimate.
